# Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array
__LINK__ [remove duplicates from sorted array](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array/)

**Goal:** You have a sorted array, remove duplicates in-place with only O(1) extra memory

**Input:**
[1, 1, 2]

**Output:**
function should return length 2, 
with the first two elements of nums being 1 and 2 respectively


## Possible Questions to ask Interviewer when given this question

Input: 
1. Can I assume that the nums array will always have at least 1 element?
   - if they say no, meaning that I might be given en empty array, then I need to check for that in my solution because when n (number of elements in nums) is 0, I can immediately return.
1. Can I assume that the input will be a valid array? - this will determine whether I need to validate input. But might be a good practice to do a try/exception block i think? (NEED TO VALIDATE)

Output:
1. Since I am only returning the length of the array after the duplicates are "removed", that means I don't have to physically remove the items in the original array correct? If I have to delete items - it might require O(n^2) time complexity...

Edit: Now that I re-read the output instruction and seeing the wonderful cpp solution, you just have to make sure the beginning of the array list is arranged with the unique elements of the array and don't have to worry about the rest of them.

## Pseudocode

1. make a copy of the list so I can loop through it
1. set last_element_index -> nums' length - 1 to get the index of last element
1. for index, value in enumerate(nums_copy)
      if value == nums_copy[index + 1] and the index doesn't equal to the length
        then you remove the value from num 
      else
        continue looping

## Complexity Analysis

* Space: O(1) 
* Time: O(n^2) - because I am using nums.remove() which has time complexity of O(n), and it's nested inside the for loop, but I am not entirely sure. (TO BE CONFIRMED AFTER I LEARN MORE ABOUT CALCULATING BIG-O NOTIATION)

## Outcome

Attempt 1: Succeeded (but took a long time..852ms)

__PYTHON__

```python

class Solution(object):
    def removeDuplicates(self, nums):
        """
        :type nums: List[int]
        :rtype: int
        """

        nums_copy = list(nums)
        last_element_index = len(nums) - 1
        
        for index, value in enumerate(nums_copy):
            if index != last_element_index and value == nums_copy[index + 1]:
                nums.remove(value)
                
        return len(nums)

```

## Other submission learnings and Solution Review

This question comes with a solution and the solution is basically using a different approach.
They are not removing the element at all, but is using 2 variables to keep track of duplicates and then increment when there's no duplicate.

returning the incremented variable which represents the total unique items in the array

__PYTHON__

```python

  unique_count = 1
        last_index = len(nums) - 1
        for index, value in enumerate(nums):
            if index != last_index and value != nums[index + 1]:
                unique_count += 1

        return unique_count
```

__CPP__
- This is an amazing cpp solution that it's just soo clever the way they used simple math to solve a seemingly difficult problem
- In the testcase by leetcode, they had said "it doesn't matter what you leave beyond the returned length", so that's why this person puts the unique items at the front of the array list and all the duplicates can still remain at the end of the list up to the return length value
- the time it took for this was only 16ms - huge improvement

```cpp

// Author: https://leetcode.com/jasusy/
// Date: Oct 19, 2018

class Solution {
public:
    int removeDuplicates(vector<int>& nums) {
        
        int duplicate_count = 0;
        
        // starting at 1 and compare with the element before it
        // if it's the same - i increment the duplicate count
        // if it's different, update the array in place with the unique element
        // THIS GUY IS SO CLEVER

        for(int i = 1; i < nums.size(); i++){
            if(nums[i] == nums[i-1]) duplicate_count++;
            else nums[i-duplicate_count] = nums[i];
        }
    
        // this gives you the total length in the array with the unique items.
        return nums.size()-duplicate_count;
    }
};

```
