# [Find the Duplicate Number]([link](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-duplicate-number/))

**Goal:** 

Given an **array nums containing n + 1 integers where each integer is between 1 and n (inclusive), prove that at least one duplicate number must exist**. Assume that there is only one duplicate number, find the duplicate one.

Find the unique number in an array and return it, assume there's only one unique value

**Input:**
[3,1,3,2,4]

**Output:**
return 3

**Constraints**
* You must not modify the array (assume the array is read only).
* You must use only constant, O(1) extra space.
* Your runtime complexity should be less than O(n2).
* There is only one duplicate number in the array, but it could be repeated more than once.

## Possible Questions to ask Interviewer when given this question

Input: 
n/a
Output:
n/a

## Test Scenario

- Start planning the test cases - think about all the edge cases first and make sure your algorithm is designed in a way to handle all the edge cases

## Pseudocode

Approach 1 - does not satisfy the requirement of not modifying the array
1. sort the array
2. n <- nums.size()
3. for i<-0 to n-2
   1. if nums[i] - nums[i+1] return nums[i]
   2. else return 0; - meaning no unique value, but it will never get to this point

Approach 2 
Using Floyd Cycle Detection algorithm


## Outcome and Complexity Analysis

**Approach 1 - Sorting the Array (hence modifying original array)**
* Time Complexity: O(nlogn) (due to the use of sort)
* Space: O(1)
* Total Time Spent: 10 minutes

However, my solution isn't that fast, so I'll have to find out how to optimize it

```cpp

class Solution {
public:
    int findDuplicate(vector<int>& nums) {
        sort(nums.begin(), nums.end());
        int n = nums.size();
        
        for(int i=0; i<n-1; i++) {
            if (nums[i] == nums[i+1]) return nums[i];
        }
        
        return 0;
    }
};

```

**Approach 2 - Using extra memory - Set**
Time: O(n)
Space: O(n)

```cpp
#include <unordered_set>

int findDuplicate(vector<int>& nums) {
  std::unordered_set<int> s;

  for (int x : nums) {
    if (s.find(x) == s.end()) {
      s.insert(x);
    } else {
      return x;
    }
  }

  return 0;
}


```

**Approach 3 - Using Floyd Cycle Detection**
Time: O(n)
Space: O(1)

This algorithm consists of 2 phases, and it uses 2 pointers (hare or tortoise, or just fast and slow)

Phase 1: the fast pointer is going to be twice as fast and enters the cycle first, the slow pointer is going to be slow so enters the cycle slower, at some point, slow and fast will reach an intersection point where they are both equal to each other. **NOTE:** Intersection point doesn't always equal to the cycle entrance in the general case, and the cycle entrance is what we are looking for as that's the duplicate.

The fast pointer would have traveled twice as many nodes as the slow pointer 

```cpp

// input: [2,5,9,6,9,3,8,9,7,1]

int findDuplidate(vector<int>& nums) {
  // phase 1 - find the intersection point

  int slow = nums[0], fast = nums[0];

  while (true) {
    slow = nums[slow];
    fast = nums[nums[fast]];
    if (fast == slow) break;
  }

  // phase 2 - we now need to find the cycle entrance
  // making the slow and fast pointer go at the same speed
  // seems like it doesn't matter whether you restart 
  // slow or fast slow = nums[0], or fast = nums[0]

  slow = nums[0];

  while (fast != slow) {
    slow = nums[slow];
    fast = nums[fast];
  }

  return fast;

}


```


## Other submission learnings and Solution Review
* There is a solution page for this problem [here](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-duplicate-number/solution/)



## Retro
Learnings
- Pigeonhole principle - learnt using this principle to proof there's at least 1 number that is a duplicate

>source: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pigeonhole_principle 

_In math, this principle states that if n items are put into m containers, with n > m, then at least one container must contain more than one item. For instance, if you have 10 pigeons (n), but only 9 containers m, then at least 1 container needs to hold the extra item. In this problem, each number is a pigeon between 1 - n, and because there are n + 1 numbers meaning we have n + 1 containers, there are n distinct possible numbers, and the pigeon hold principle implies that there's at least 1 number is duplicated. e.g. we have n = 5, and the array is n + 1 in size, so size 6, and each number is 1 - 5, so we could n unique numbers, so there has to be a duplidate for the n + 1th container_

### Challenge to myself
- If the values of each array element isn't between 1 - n, would you still be able to use floyd cycle detection algorithm?

input: [2,30,20,15,2,5,6]

can you find the duplicate using such algorithm?
