# [Group Anagrams](https://leetcode.com/problems/group-anagrams/)

**Goal:** 
Given an array of strings, group anagrams together.
**anagrams** are essentially words that have the same letters but rearranged differently

**Input:**
['eat', 'tea', 'tan', 'ate', 'nat', 'bat']


**Output:**
[
  ['ate', 'eat', 'tea'],
  ['nat', 'tan'],
  ['bar']
]


## Possible Questions to ask Interviewer when given this question

Input: 
1. Will the same word appear more than once?
1. what is the str.length constraint?
1. what is the str[i].length constraint? - if they say no constraint, I am going to need to assume that there will be empty strings - so need to check for that
1. Can I assume that input is going to be valid?

Output:


## Test Scenario

- Start planning the test cases - think about all the edge cases first and make sure your algorithm is designed in a way to handle all the edge cases

1. test the example input
2. test for empty array input e.g. [], output should be []
3. test for having just 1 item in input e.g. ['ears'], output: [['ears']]

## Pseudocode
I am struggling with this question a bit because I am not familiar with all the datastructures yet, so this pseudocode is updated after I saw the solution.

Approach 1: 

1. Initate a hashmap, key: str, value: vector
1. Initiate a 2D output vector
1. for i <- 0 to n-1:
    - copy <- strs[i]
    - sort(copy)
    - hashmap[key].push_back(strs[i])
1. loop through hashmap
    - add each value of hashmap to output vector

Approach 2 - TBD
- This is the slower approach which compares the alphabet frequency of each word instead of using a hashmap

## Strategy
- For questions such as these where you need to compare if something is equal to each other, you should always reduce it down to its canonical form (the most basic representation)

For instance:
When you want to compare whether abc = cba? what is its simplest form of these 2 strings: you could sort the strings first before comparing them or else you might have to compare the frequency of appearance of each letter. 

When you want to compare whether the fraction of 15/20 is the same as 12/16? How do you compare? You reduce it down to the canonical form, so you know reducing 15/20 is 3/4, and reducing 12/16 you have 3/4 as well, therefore, they are equal.

When you want to try to catch someone whether they are using copyright content, you can take the canonical form (smallest representation of this bigger content) and compare to the smallest representation of the same content in the db this will help you identify whether something is the same. 

## Other submission learnings and Solution Review

**Note:** This problem comes with a solution: https://leetcode.com/problems/group-anagrams/solution/

* Approach 1 - Using Hashmaps to store the sorted words as the key and then the value of the key is a vector of the actual words that matches the key after it's sorted
* Time Complexity: O(N * KLogn) N is the length of strs, and K is individual length of the string elements (I need to double check)
* Space: O(N) - in the worst case, I will have no anagrams, so the size of my hashmap grows with the length of the strs.

```cpp

class Solution {
public:
    vector<vector<string>> groupAnagrams(vector<string>& strs) {
        int n = strs.size();
        vector<vector<string>> output;
        unordered_map<string, vector<string>> map;
        
        for(auto word : strs) {
            string copy = word;
            sort(copy.begin(), copy.end());
            map[copy].push_back(word);
        }
        

        for(auto wordVector : map) {
            output.push_back(wordVector.second);
        }
        
        return output;
    }
};


```

## Retro

Didn't do well:
- I wasn't able to solve this on my own, but will do better next time. 

Did Well:
- Didn't give up right away and at least drafted an approach
- Learned about unordered_map in the C++ STL
- Learned about canonical form and a different perspective in approaching a problem